---
title: "vCorfu: A Cloud-Scale Object Store on a Shared Log"
date: 2021-05-13
categories:
  - Paper Review
tags:
  - vCorfu
---

vCorfu: a cloud-scale object store on a shared log

# How distributed systems achieve consensus?
- Paxos: maintain a distributed shared log
- But, it does NOT scale
- How can we take the nice property of shared log w/o compromising scalability?

# Flash Memory
- Non-volatile memory providing persistence, high throughput and low latency
- Provides contention-free random reads

# Corfu
### Intro
- To use a cluster of flash storage as a single shared log (like a distributed SSD)
- To enable systems work directly over network-attached flash storage
- Why? to reduce overheads and power consumption by eliminating storage servers
- A simple option: combine a high-end server with PCI-e SSD and replicate it for fault-tolerance and scalability of read throughput
- Limitations 
- 1) append throughput is limited by the bandwidth of the single server
- 2) Get bulky, general purpose servers involved between the network and flash can create performance bottleneck and offset the power benefits of flash

### Idea
- Map each position in the shared log to a set of pages (a basic unit of data in flash memory) on different flash units 
- For read, clients maintain this map, and use it to determine a corresponding flash page, and issues a read to the page directly.
- For append, clients first determine the next available position in the shared log (use **sequencer** to avoid contention with other clients), then write
data directly to the flash page positions

### Goals
- Ensures that append throughput is not limited by the bandwidth of any single flash memory
(instead, it is determined by the sequencer's throughput assigning 64-bit seq-num)
* Corfu assumed user-space sequencer
- Place some functionalities at the clients to reduce the complexity, cost, latency, and power consumption of the flash memory


### Three entities 
- 1) Control Plane: sequencer (to remove the ordering overheads), Layout (to help clients find where the rest of entities are) 
- 2) Fast Datapath: simple storage units, 
### Corfu Properties
- Sequencer is fast
- Scalable (by adding more storage units)
- Fault Tolerant (via chain replication) 
- Strong Consistency
### How Corfu works?
- Client goes to the layout service to learn where the other entities are (unless the system is reconfigured, client needs to do it just once)
- Client talks to the sequencer and get the seq_num
- Client writes the value at the seq_num location



# Talk Summary
### Background
##### Shared Log
- In the age of cloud, building systems which are scalable and strongly consistent is pretty difficult (i.e., require lots of overheads, complexity)
- Shard Log's goal: providing scalability w/o compromising consistency 
- However, it makes a different set of tradeoffs...

##### How it works?
- Even though writing to a shared log provides strong consistency and high performance,
these systems use SMR to provide strongest level of consistency and concurrency, 
and thus log updates only. 
- For example, instead of writing the new value of a counter, it would write an increment record onto the log
- Consequently, reads become more expensive (why? clients need to read all the updates to figure out the current counter value)




- Goal: 


##### Questions
Q1
- In NOPaxos and Eris, only leader executes operations while other replicas just log them. What about read-only ops? Do we need to sequence them too?
Yes, to ensure it doesn't return a stale data
1) just send it to the closest server => NOT work since non-leaders do not execute ops immediately
2) send to leader only? => Cannot handle leader failure
- But CORFU sequencer append only, not read (because there is a single shared log)
Q2
- Corfu proposes to implement a shared distributed log using a cluster of flash memories
- It claims to remove the servers in their system becuase the servers are performance bottleneck
- For scalability with a large amount of data, it divides the log positions unlike the traditional sharding dividing the data range
- Remember! Corfu is implementing log, not the data storage itself (the operations in the log should be executed separately)

##### References
[1] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RcpEsoEfxgs
