---
title: "Memory related concepts"
date: 2021-05-13
categories:
  - System
tags:
  - memory
---

# MMU: Memory Management Unit
- a HW (integrated into the processor) that handles all memory and caching operations associated with the processor.
- Three main tasks:
  * HW memory management: oversees and regulates the processor's use of RAM and cache
  * OS memory management: ensures the availability of adequate memory resources for the objects and data structures of each running program at all times.
  * Application memory management: allocates each individual program's required memory, and then recycles freed-up memory space when the operation concludes.

# Cache
- Speed: CPU > RAM > Disk
- CPU read instructions or data from RAM (via Bus) to execute, so bottlenecked by RAM speed
- so, we have register and cache on the CPU chip
- (In the most common design) each CPU core has it's own private register and L1 data&instruction cache, but L2 unified cache is typically shared by all cores

# Mount
- To access to a disk from OS
- we mount a disk (e.g., /dev/sda1) to a directory, then OS can access to the disk via the directory
- Or, we mount a directory of host to a directory of VM (or container)


# NUMA: Non Uniform Memory Access
NUMA is a system that is used in computers with multiple physical CPUs.

## Typical Computer
- One CPU handling most of the computational stuff
- RAM is direcntly connected to the CPU. 
- RAM is not a storage memory, but a working memory of the CPU: CPU can temporarily store things that it's working on 
- RAM's capacity is fairly small (a few GB), but it needs to be incredibly fast (to support incredibly fast CPU's computation)
- BUS is the wires connecting between RAM and CPU (Obviously, BUS is very fast to support the communication between RAM and CPU)

## Computer with 4 CPUs
### How to connect those CPUs to the memory?
- Traditionally, connected all CPUs to a big RAM through one BUS (as if there is one massive CPU)
- Bad idea. Why? Obviouslty, the single BUS is easily saturated
- Here, **NUMA** comes in!

## NUMA: a pair of CPU and RAM connected by a BUS
- On multi-CPU computer, each CPU form a NUMA node, and we simply connect them
- Now, all CPUs can access all momories
- But, accessing it's own memory is faster than accessing another CPU's memory (i.e., Non Uniform)
- Nevertheless, accessing other's RAM is faster than the single BUS saturated by multiple CPUs


##### References
[1] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vmb8xGD-LV8
